.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt ADWM \&1 "User Commands"
.Os @PACKAGE@ @VERSION@
.Sh NAME
.Nm @PACKAGE@
.Nd advanced dynamic window manager for X
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm @PACKAGE@
.Bk -words
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl f Ar conf
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a lightweight window manager for X based on dwm's source code.
It manages windows in maximized, floating and tiled layouts.
Either layout can be applied dynamically, optimizing the environment for the
application in use and the task performed.
.Pp
In maximized layout only one window can be seen at the moment, but you
can switch between them with hotkeys.
In floating layout windows can be resized and moved freely.
Dialog windows are always managed floating, regardless of the layout applied.
.Pp
Windows are grouped by tags. Each window can be tagged with one or
multiple tags. Selecting certain tags displays all windows with these tags.
.Pp
.Nm
draws a small border around windows to indicate the focus state and an
optional titlebar.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXX"
.It Fl v
Prints version information to standard output, then exits.
.It Fl f Ar conf
Specifies an alternative configuration file.
By default,
.Nm
loads the configuration file from
.Pa ~/.@PACKAGE@/@PACKAGE@rc,
if present, then looks for the system-wide configuration file
.Pa /usr/share/@PACKAGE@/@PACKAGE@rc .
.El
.Pp
The following notation is used in this page:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It Ic A
Alt.
.It Ic C
Control.
.It Ic S
Shift.
.It Ic W
Windows key.
.It Ic M
Mod key (definable to one of the above).
.It Ic M1
Left mouse button.
.It Ic M2
Middle mouse button.
.It Ic M3
Right mouse button.
.El
.Ss KEY BINDINGS
The default key bindings are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXX" -offset indent -compact
.It Ic A-[F1..Fn]
Views all windows with n-th tag.
.It Ic A-Return
Zooms/cycles current window to/from master area (tiled layout only).
.It Ic A-Space
Toggles between tiled and floating layout (affects all windows).
.It Ic A-Tab
Toggles to the previously selected tags.
.It Ic A-b
Toggles on/off statusbar space.
.It Ic A-f
Enables floating mode.
.It Ic A-h
Decreases the master area width about 5% (tiled layout only).
.It Ic A-i
Enables floating mode.
.It Ic A-j
Focuses next window.
.It Ic A-k
Focuses previous window.
.It Ic A-l
Increases the master are width about 5% (tiled layout only).
.It Ic A-m
Enables maximized (monocle) mode.
.It Ic A-r
Enables tiled mode.
.It Ic A-t
Starts xterm.
.It Ic A-w
Enables bottom-tiled mode.
.It Ic A-C-[1..n]
Adds/removes all windows with n-th tag to/from the view.
.It Ic A-C-q
Quits
.Nm .
.It Ic A-C-S-[1..n]
Adds/removes n-th tag to/from current window.
.It Ic A-S-[1..n]
Applies n-th tag to current window.
.It Ic A-S-c
Closes focused window.
.El
.Ss MOUSE BINDINGS
The default mouse bindings are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXX" -offset indent -compact
.It Ic M1
When pressed on the titlebar, focuses window and raises it on top of the stack.
.It Ic M2
When pressed on the titlebar, resizes window.
.It Ic M3
When pressed on the root window, draws a rectangle to start a terminal in it.
.It Ic A-M1
Moves current window while dragging.
Tiled windows will be toggled to the floating state.
.It Ic A-M2
Zooms/cycles current window to/from master area.
If it is floating (but not fixed) it will be toggled to the tiled state,
instead.
.It Ic A-M3
Resizes current window while dragging.
Tiled windows will be toggled to the floating state.
.El
.Ss CUSTOMIZATION
The configuration file is a set of X resources (with a class of Adwm),
which are described in the sections below.
.Pp
Every relative path specified is relative to the directory in which the
configuration file is in.
.Ss MAIN SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic attachaside
Set new windows as slave or master.
.Bl -column "Character" "Meaning" -offset indent
.It Sy "Value" Ta Sy "Meaning"
.It Li "0" Ta "New windows as master"
.It Li "1" Ta "New masters as slave"
.El
.It Ic deflayout
Layout applied to tag if not explicitly set by tags.layout later.
.Bl -column "Character" "Meaning" -offset indent
.It Sy "Value" Ta Sy "Meaning"
.It Li "b" Ta "Bottom Stack"
.It Li "f" Ta "Floating"
.It Li "i" Ta "Ifloating"
.It Li "m" Ta "Maximized"
.It Li "t" Ta "Tiled"
.It Li "g" Ta "Grid"
.El
.It Ic modkey
Choose modkey.
.It Ic mwfact
Space occupied by master window in tiled layout (fraction of 1).
.It Ic nmaster
Number of clients in master area in tiled layout.
.It Ic sloppy
Sets the type of sloppy focus to use.
.Bl -column "Number" "Meaning" -offset indent
.It Sy "Value" Ta Sy "Meaning"
.It Li "0" Ta "Click to focus"
.It Li "1" Ta "Sloppy focus for floating clients"
.It Li "2" Ta "Sloppy focus for everything"
.It Li "3" Ta "Sloppy focus and raise on focus"
.El
.El
.Ss BORDER SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic border
Width of the border (in pixels).
.El
.Ss BUTTON SETTINGS
In the settings that follow, '*' can be replaced by the 'name' as follows:
.Bl -column "maximize" "State" -offset indent
.It Sy "Name" Ta Sy "Toggle State"
.It Li "close" Ta "-"
.It Li "iconify" Ta "-"
.It Li "maximize" Ta "maximized vertical or horizontal"
.It Li "shade" Ta "shaded"
.It Li "stick" Ta "sticky"
.It Li "fill" Ta "filled"
.It Li "float" Ta "floating"
.It Li "resize" Ta "-"
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic button.*.button[n].action
Where [n] is a digit between 1 and 5 inclusive indicating the action
to perform when the mouse button is released over the titlebar button.
.It Ic button.*.pixmap
Sets the default pixmap for the buttons in the titlebar.  All other pixmaps (with
the exception of disabled pixmaps) ultimately default to this pixmap when unspecified.
.It Ic button.*.pressed.pixmap
Sets the pixmap for the button while pressed.
.It Ic button.*[.toggled][.disabled].focus.pixmap
Sets the pixmap for the button while the client window is focused,
optionally while the button is in the toggled or disabled state.
Toggled pixmaps default to non-toggled pixmaps.  A missing disabled pixmap
causes the button to dissapear instead.
Focus pixmaps default to the default pixmap.
.It Ic button.*[.toggled][.disabled].unfocus.pixmap
Sets the pixmap for the button while the client window is unfocused,
optionally while the button is in the toggled or disabled state.
Toggled pixmaps default to non-toggled pixmaps.  A missing disabled pixmap
causes the button to dissapear instead.
Unfocus pixmaps default to focused pixmaps.
.It Ic button.*[.toggled][.disabled].hover.pixmap
Sets the pixmap for the button while the pointer is hovering over the button,
optionally while the button is in the toggled or disabled state.
Toggled pixmaps default to non-toggled pixmaps.  A missing disabled pixmap
causes the button to dissapear instead.
Hover pixmaps default to focused pixmaps.
.El
.Ss COLOR SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic normal.bg
Sets the titlebar background for unfocused windows.
.It Ic normal.border
Sets the color of a small border around each unfocused window.
.It Ic normal.button
Sets the button foreground for unfocused windows.
.It Ic normal.fg
Sets the titlebar foreground for unfocused windows.
.It Ic normal.shadow
Sets the titlebar drop shadow color for unfocused windows.
.It Ic selected.bg
.It Ic selected.border
.It Ic selected.button
.It Ic selected.fg
.It Ic selected.shadow
Sets color options for focused windows.
.El
.Ss HACKS SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic hidebastards
Hide panels, pagers and others with togglestruts function.
.El
.Ss KEY AND MOUSE BINDING SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic ACSW + key_or_button [ = options][, ACSW + key_or_button [ = options]] ...
Binds key or button to the specified command (see
.Sx "COMMANDS" Ns ).
Spaces are mandatory.
.Pp
Key is taken from the X11 files (usually located under an include directory)
.Pa keysym.h
and,
.Pa XF86keysym.h
and removing the XK_ prefix before use.
.Pp
Button is one of 'Button1', 'Button2', 'Button3', 'Button4' or 'Button5', indicating
the mouse button to bind, followed by a single space and one
of 'Window', 'Frame', 'Title' or 'Root', indicating where the button press must occur.
.Pp
Commands options are specified after an equal sign.
.Pp
Additional key bindings for the same command, with the same or different
options, can be specified following a comma.
.El
.Ss MISC SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic command
Application to run on right click on root window.
.It Ic opacity
Opacity value for inactive windows (xcompmgr needed).
.El
.Ss TAGS SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic tags.layout{...}
Layout per tag on start (see
.Ic deflayout )
.Ns .
.It Ic tags.name{...}
Names of the tags.
.It Ic tags.number
Number of tags.
.El
.Ss TITLE SETTINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic decoratetiled
If one, draw titles in tiled mode.
.It Ic font
Titlebar font.
.It Ic normal.drop
Drop shadow in pixels (typically 1, default 0) for unfocused window fonts.
.It Ic normal.font
Titlebar font for unfocused windows.
.It Ic selected.drop
Drop shadow in pixels (typically 1, default 0) for focused window fonts.
.It Ic selected.font
Titlebar font for focused windows.
.It Ic spacing
Spacing in pixels between titlebar elements.
.It Ic title
Titlebar height.
.It Ic titlelayout
Titlebar consists of 3 parts separated with dashes or spaces.
Left is aligned to left, center to center and right to right (obviously).
Default value is "N  IMC" meaning name on the left iconify, maximize and
close buttons on right (note 2 spaces).
.Bl -column "Character" "Meaning" -offset indent
.It Sy "Value" Ta Sy "Meaning"
.It Li "dash" Ta "skip space (space can't be used as first character)"
.It Li "space" Ta "Same as the above"
.It Li "C" Ta "Close"
.It Li "I" Ta "Iconify"
.It Li "M" Ta "Maximize"
.It Li "S" Ta "Shade"
.It Li "A" Ta "Stick"
.It Li "X" Ta "Fill"
.It Li "F" Ta "Float"
.It Li "Z" Ta "Size"
.It Li "N" Ta "Window name"
.It Li "T" Ta "Tagbar"
.It Li "|" Ta "Separator"
.El
.El
.Ss COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic appendtag
.It Ic rmlasttag
Appends a new tag or removes the last defined tag.  Effectivley increases
or decreases the number of "desktops".
.It Ic decmwfact [-]factor
.It Ic incmwfact [+]factor
Decreases, increases or sets the master window factor.  Without the
leading  '-' or '+', sets the factor.
.It Ic decnmaster -delta
.It Ic incnmaster +delta
Decreases or increases the number of master windows.  When the delta is zero,
sets the default number of master windows.
.It Ic focusicon
Focuses the next iconified window.
.It Ic focusnext
.It Ic focusprev
Focuses next or previous window.
.It Ic focusview#
Toggles view number # and focuses the first client in it.
.It Ic iconify
Iconifies the current focused window.
.It Ic killclient
Closes current focused window.
.It Ic movedown
.It Ic moveleft
.It Ic moveright
.It Ic moveup Ar x y w h
Moves the window by the specified number of pixels in the specified direction.
.It Ic restart [arguments]
Restarts.  Can be given an optional arguments to restart with different
command line arguments.
.Nm .
.It Ic quit [command]
Exits.  Can be given an optional command to start a different window manager.
.Nm .
.It Ic resizedecx
.It Ic resizedecy
.It Ic resizeincx
.It Ic rezizeincy Ar x y w h
Resizes the window by the specified number of pixels in the specified
direction.
.It Ic rotateview
.It Ic unrotateview
Rotates the current tiling layout in the clockwise or counter clockwise directions.
.It Ic rotatezone
.It Ic unrotatezone
Rotates the zone of the selected window (the master zone, slave zone,
or grid orientation) in the clockwise or counter clockwise direction.
.It Ic rotatewins
.It Ic unrotatewins
Rotates the currently tiled window through the available positions in the
clockwise or counter clockwise directions.
.It Ic rule# Ar class.title tag isfloating hastitle
Sets a rule for the specified window class or title.
NULL indicates that no tag is needed.
.It Ic spawn#
Runs specified program (upto 64).
.It Ic tag#
Tags current window with tag number #.
.It Ic toggledectiled
Toggles decoration of tiled windows.
.It Ic togglefill
Toggles filling the available area with a floating window.
.It Ic togglefloating
Toggles floating or tiled mode.
.It Ic togglehidden
Toggles hiding the currently focused window.
.It Ic togglemaxh
.It Ic togglemaxv
Toggles maximization of the currently focused window in the
horizontal or vertical directions.
.It Ic togglemonitor
Switches from one monitor to another.
.It Ic toggleshade
Toggles the shading and unshading of the currently focused window.
.It Ic togglestruts
.Nm
has no bar, but this command switches the area on top or bottom which won't
be covered by windows in tiled on monocle mode.
.It Ic toggleview#
Toggles view number #.
.It Ic view#
Views tag number #.
.It Ic viewlefttag
.It Ic viewrighttag
Views tag on left or right.
.It Ic viewprevtag
View previous tag set.
.It Ic zoom
Zooms the currently focused window.  If it is a master, it
becomes a slave; and visa versa.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To move a window five pixels to the right:
.Pp
.Dl Adwm*moveright: AS + l = +5 0 0 0
.Pp
To resize a window five pixels down:
.Pp
.Dl Adwm*resizedecy: AS + v = 0 0 0 -5
.Pp
To make mplayer float and with a title by default:
.Dl Adwm*rule0: Mplayer.* NULL 1 1
.Pp
To spawn an xterm when A + T is pressed:
.Dl Adwm*spawn0: A + t = xterm
.Pp
To show the title centered and the close button on the right:
.Dl Adwm*titlelayout: -T-C
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
is fully EWMH (NetWM), WMH (WinWM), MWMH (Motif/DTWM) and ICCCM 2.0 compliant,
so you can use your favourite panel or pager. 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr adwm-keys 1 ,
.Xr xdg-dmenu 1 .
.Sh BUGS
parsekey() doesn't handle non-alphanumeric keysyms.
.Pp
Please resport bugs to <https://github.com/bbidulock/@PACKAGE@/issues>.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Brian Bidulock Aq bidulock@openss7.org
